NAME OF THE PROJECT: ENERGY LIVE

APPLICATION OF THE PROJECT   : Energy Live is used to run an energy ecosystem, by ledgering the generation and consumption deails of the electicity in the system. It accept energy transaction details from energy generators and electricity consumers. Energy generators can be individual homes and businessess as well as huge hydro power dam power stations. Consumers are residential and business electricity consumers as well as electric vehicle users. Power grid of an entire nation can become self sustainable with energy generated completely from renewable energy. This grid will be intelligent enough to trade the energy from higher generation side to higher consuming side of the grid automatically with secured billing for the stakeholders. Energy will be generated by decentralized power plants from roof top solar and wind energy plants. This energy is cosumed by electric loads or stored in electric vehicles. EVs can download and upload energy to HT grid via fast charging and discharging stations. Energy is transmitted through HT lines and balances the supply and demand. This entire transatcions are handled by the blockchain application developed on hyperledger sawtooth software platform.


DETAILED DESCRIPTION:﻿
Energy has to be available seamlessly for a society to thrive. It is the most demanding commodity for our life after air, water and food. Energy is primarily utilized in modern world as electricity. Its used to light up our homes, streets and cities. Its used as the driving force of industries. Slowly it seems clear that the use of electricity as an alternate to fossil fuel in cooking and transportation is the single most option for a self sustainable humanity. 

Electricity is generated from hydro electric, nuclear, thermal,wind and solar energy among the many other less popular methods. Coming years these power plants will be decentralized in nature and generate enough energy to meet the demand of microgrids and facilitate power to other microgrids. Same energy can be used to charge the electric vehicles. EV owners will have to pay for the energy they get, to the fast charging stations, which get energy from distribution company. Distribution company is powered by the customers solar and other renewable power sources. So these generators get this amout in the end from discom. These transactions which are entirely depend upon instantaneous supply demand pivot of the grid. The tariff change very frequently once  every grids are interconnected and allowed to pass energy to and fro.These complex transactions has to be automatically calculated and kept in ledger form for billing. So this application is put forward as a novel solution which is based on decentralized renewable energy sources, micro-grids, electric vehicles, Fast charging and discharging stations, and block chain based billing. Each technology is explained briefly to state the application through the description.

MICRO GRID is a technology that gaining traction in modern electricity distribution system. A micro grid is a portion of the main distribution network which is scaled according to convenience as area under a substation or distribution transformer. All the end users and electrical loads comes under different micro grids. These energy transfer is billed with individual meter reading. Small power generators like solar, wind and other sources can be connected under a micro grid which enable them to be self sustainable. These generations are also metered with individual power plant meters. Energy is generated and consumed in different time span by customers and it has to be billed according to TOD-time of day, which is peak time,off peak time and regular time. Energy Live is used to bill these transactions according to the time based tariff and store it in a distributed ledger for billing and auditing. It can also easily track any power theft in each microgrid, if there is discrepancy between disribution transformer meter reading which is aggregate of all individual consumers and generators under its area.

DECENTRALIZED SOLAR POWER PLANTS and wind turbines on roof tops of homes and buildings will generate power and provide supply to a portion of grid under a single distribution transformer. Distribution transformers’ energy reading will be provided by the meter through Internet. It is analyzed by a program and it learn the load profile as well as generation pattern from the meters of solar power plants. After the initial testing period the program can predict the exact supply and demand of electricity on a single point of time on any day around the year inside all micro grids under scrutiny. So customers can decide the right time to use energy from the grid, so that they will get the best price for the energy. 

DC FAST CHARGING STATIONS
Charging stations are used to charge electric vehicles or get the stored energy from electric vehicles. Electric vehicles are either used for regular transportation of people and goods, or dedicated transportation of energy. This vehicles give the stored energy to a centralized bigger storage unit which is connected to the HT line. The excess energy during day time from the decentralized power plant is stored in the charging station and either given to the cities and industries to consume or supplied to HT line to meet the peak load demand of the micro grid itself.

ELECTRIC VEHICLES
Electric vehicles are consumers of electricity who are mobile. They need to charge from any place and discharge to any place. A dedicated harware wallet is built in with EVS so that from where ever they charge it is billed according to the system.

PRESENT STATUS OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF APPLICATION:
Distribution transformer meter reading and solar power plant meter reading are being connected to the master program. It is processed with the given tariff settings and secured in block chain.

WHY TO USE BLOCK CHAIN IN THE APPLICATION:
1. Blockchains allow different parties that do not trust each other to share information without requiring a central administrator. Transactions are processed by a network of users acting as a consensus mechanism so that everyone is creating the same shared system of record simultaneously. All nodes work together to ensure they are all coming to the same conclusions, providing in-built security for the network. The four types of parties involved in energy live are consumers,generators distribution company and chargng stations. These four etities can participate in the network without relying on a centralized server.

2. Blockchain technology offers new tools for authentication and authorization in the digital world that preclude the need for many centralized administrators. As a result, it enables the creation of new digital relationships. By formalizing and securing new digital relationships, blockchain create the backbone of a layer of the internet for transactions and interactions of value (often called the ‘Internet of Value’, as opposed to the ‘Internet of Information’ which uses the client-server, accounts and master copy databases we’ve been using for over the past 20 years.)


3. Data transaction is dynamic with an auditable history.
If the data and its history are important to the digital relationships they are helping to establish, then blockchains offer a flexible capacity by enabling many parties to write new entries into a system of record that is also held by many custodians.

4.Should or can the data be controlled by a central authority?

There remain many reasons why a third party should be in charge of some authentications and authorizations. There are times when third-party control is totally appropriate and desirable. If privacy of the data is the most important consideration, there are ways to secure data by not even connecting it to a network.But if existing IT infrastructure featuring accounts and log-ins is not sufficient for the security of digital identity, then the problem might be solved by blockchain technology.


5.Private key cryptography enables push transactions, which don’t require centralized systems and the elaborate accounts used to establish digital relationships. If this database requires millions of dollars to secure lightweight financial transactions, then there’s a chance blockchains are the solution. Using the technology offers the possibility to reduce costs and offers the opportunity for businesses to build and maintain an infrastructure that delivers capabilities at lower expenses than traditional centralized models.

6.Blockchain can process transactions faster because it doesn't use a centralized infrastructure. Although there is no system totally secure from cyberattacks, the distributed nature of blockchain provides an unprecedented level of trust. The unchangeable property of blockchain and its public availability among its users, whether in a public ledger or a private one, provides transparency. Any user of the system can query transactions on a real-time basis.

WHY NOT TRADITIONAL DATABASE:
Blockchains just assign a higher priority to certain features that allow distributed ledger sharing, shared immutable recording and consensus building—quite valuable capabilities traditional databases haven’t yet been designed to offer.

FEATURES OF YOUR APPLICATION.
1). A complete load profile and renewable generation pattern is made on whole grid. The fine blocks of the system in terms of hardware is the single electrical load under a home or building. From there consumer meter, distribution transformer and substation as well as power station meters provide the readings of consumption to fill even the minute pixel of the energy consumption painting. The basic time unit can be in seconds or fraction of one, that gives the most precised reading in any given moment. 
2) A self learning neural network will continuously monitor the data and learn the pattern of consumption and generation. After a prefixed testing time the program can exactly predict, on any time of the day on any season and yet in any micro grid, what will be the probable consumption of energy and generation of renewable energy.
3) It then forms a timing and portal position, for electric vehicle charging and discharging , so that the excess energy created in the micro grids can be stored in these batteries and uploaded to the HT line to be transmitted to the demanding area in the power grid. 
4) The whole trade of energy between stake holders are automated through block chain technology and used for secured billing and settlements.

STEP BY STEP INSTRUCTIONS FOR INSTALLING/SETTING UP THE APPLICATION FOR USE







